**Project:** US Migration Pattern  
**Team members:** Anum Ahmed (aqa2001), Fahitza Quessa (fdq2000), Liliana Seoror (ls3594), Tramy Dong (td2748)

**Introduction:**  
	Our project aims to look at migration into the United States within context, particularly through the lens of global events like wars and political and economic shifts, and crises. This allows us to have a more accurate and empathetic understanding of immigration. The motivation behind this project is also personal; most of our team members are either immigrants or have direct connections to migration, so understanding these changes transcends the classroom. We want to track how U.S. migration has shifted over time, test whether global events actually drive spikes in immigration, and figure out where most immigrants are coming from.

**Related Work:**  
	To help us think through how to visualize U.S. migration patterns, we looked at the *Monthly Abortion Provision Study* and *Zipecode* for guidance. *The Monthly Abortion Provision Study* gave us a great example of how to show monthly data in a way that could accurately reflect changes in policy overtime; from Zipecode, which maps out ZIP codes across the U.S. we were able to see how to start thinking about population density and the visualization of spatial patterns in migration. We had also made charts showing legal permanent resident and refugee numbers over the past decade, all of which helped us see how global U.S. events directly impact immigration volume and the types of immigrants that are entering America. 


**Methodology:**   
This project is implemented using data collected by aggregating the yearly refugee data counts collected from the published datasets from the Office of Homeland Security. In their “Yearbook of Immigration Statistics”, we were able to access tables that include the numbers and demographic profiles of persons admitted to the United States as refugees in a given fiscal year. We looked at data of refugees from 2013 to 2022 for all available countries. The data, downloaded as CSV files, are reviewed and edited to remove all empty columns or data marked as withheld for easier processing when implementing our visualizations.   
After that, inflection points where numbers drastically changed year over year were analyzed to provide some understanding of the data. Once countries/years of increased or decreasing immigration were reviewed, different news articles were used to provide greater context and feature individual stories of people who immigrated to the US.

**Design:**  
Our design starts off with a bit of “Scrolly-telling” having the user understand the sheer numbers of immigrants who come into the country each year. After that, they are provided with stories from immigrants coming from different regions of the world. Finally, they are directed to a dashboard where they can explore the data themselves. The dashboard allows the user to directly select a start and end year, and see the shifts in immigration between that time. We also utilize a sankey to show shifts. We use circle motifs during the introduction to get the user acclimated to the graphs that come up later on. We ended up originally using an auto scroll feature but later discarded it because of different performance on different screens. 

**Implementation:**  
	Our project is implemented as a React App and deployed on GitHub pages so it can be accessed on the web. We followed this repository: [https://github.com/gitname/react-gh-pages](https://github.com/gitname/react-gh-pages). Specifically, all our graphs are implemented using D3 Javascript which are stored as components in our React application.

**Discussion:**   
	From the numerous in class presentations and subsequent improvements made from advice shared during critiques, we made many iterations of our dashboard that led up to the final project. We went from a standard four quadrant dashboard that included four different tables that somewhat connected to a more fleshed out “Scrolly-telling” approach that allowed the user to better understand how each component worked. With our “Scrolly-telling” dashboard, first introduce one large graph, then we provide the user with more guidance on which parameters to edit by having a dropdown fill-in-the-blank sentence. This approach is more effective in showcasing the stories of refugees and direction of movement throughout the visualization. 

**Future Work:**   
	Looking ahead, we hope to refine our project by focusing more explicitly on how different presidential administrations impact immigration patterns, policies, and public sentiment. In particular, if we could continue this project, we would plan to compare data across administrations, such as the laws passed, to visualize the effects of restrictive rhetoric, increased deportations, and shifting asylum policies. This is a point of interest, especially under figures like Donald Trump, whose current presidency has intensified harmful narratives around immigrants. By highlighting correlations between political leadership and migration flows, we would hope to understand and demonstrate how an elected official could directly shape the lived experiences of immigrant communities. 
